Born and raised in the mighty city of St. Louis, Missouri, I’m a
native to the land of rivers, sweaty summers, brick houses, and sunday
morning porch sitting.  I studied environmental studies at the
Washington University in St. Louis.  My undergraduate interest was
sustainable agriculture, which manifested as a year off of school
working on farms around the country and a senior thesis investigating
the practices of farmers selling at local farmers’ markets.  After
graduation I stayed in St. Louis to teach high school biology and
chemistry for two years as a Teach For America corps member.  In 2012
I moved north to Wisconsin where I worked as an arborist and a year
later joined the Townsend Lab at UW Madison.  I enjoy being outside in
all its facets–camping, biking, rock climbing, tree climbing, and
sailing.

For my research I am broadly interested in the relationship between
humans and the environment in the places where most of us live:
cities.  Urbanization–and its associated environmental impacts such as
the urban heat island effect, increased rainfall and runoff, and
increased nutrient inputs– is increasing across the globe.  Forests
both within and near cities provide important ecosystem services for
urban dwellers including carbon sequestration, air quality
improvement, stormwater attenuation, and energy conservation.  Urban
trees enhance the quality of human life in cities and is a strong
personal motivation for my work.

My projects include 1) creating a map of tree canopy cover in urban
areas of Wisconsin, 2) developing methods to assess maps at multiple
spatial scales, 3) exploring how urban vegetation and its
phenology (the timing of leaf grown and leaf fall) affect the urban
climate, and 4) exploring patterns of canopy foliar nutrients and
the environmental factors that might influence them.
