Born and raised in the mighty city of St. Louis, Missouri, I’m a
native to the land of rivers, sweaty summers, brick houses, and sunday
morning porch sitting.  I studied environmental studies at the
Washington University in St. Louis.  My undergraduate interests were
sustainable agriculture, which manifested as a year off of school
working on farms around the country and a senior thesis investigating
the practices of farmers selling at local farmers’ markets.  After
graduation I stayed in St. Louis to teach high school biology and
chemistry for two years as a Teach For America corps member.  In 2012
I moved north to Wisconsin where I worked as an arborist and a year
later joined the Townsend Lab at UW Madison.  I enjoy being outside in
all its facets–camping, biking, rock climbing, tree climbing, and
sailing.


For my research I am broadly interested in the regional impact humans
have on their environment. Urbanization–and its associated
environmental impacts such as the urban heat island effect, increased
rainfall and runoff, and increased nutrient inputs– is increasing
across the globe.  Forests both within and near cities provide
important ecosystem services for urban dwellers including carbon
sequestration, air quality improvement, stormwater attenuation, and
energy conservation.  Urban trees enhance the quality of human life in
cities and is a strong personal motivation for my work.


, specifically, in using
hyperspectral data to understand the interaction between cities and
forests.

I plan to
investigate how forests’ capacity to provide ecosystem services might
vary along an urban to rural gradient.

Mapping Urban Tree Canopy Cover
Urban Heat Island - phenology

Urban Forest Functional Traits derived from Hyperspectral imagery



